Kevin Gates
Product Designer

314 Panoramic Way
Berkeley, CA
94704
kgates@googlealumni.com
415-503-7993


Introduction

I combine research, UX design and data visualization to create apps that help people solve problems and reach goals. 


Portfolio

http://kgates-github.github.io/


Freelance
Data Visualization Designer and Developer
February 2015 - Present

- Designed Seeing the Air, a winning entry in a data visualization competition sponsored by Lift Conference, Gray Area and Swissnex. Created simple charting framework using d3.js/SVG.
- Designed data visualizations for ex-Google/YC-alum startup.
 

Practice Fusion
Data Visualization Engineer, R&D
May 2013 - February 2015

At Practice Fusion, a healthcare startup funded by Peter Thiel and Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, I started out as a data visualization engineer for the Informatics team. I later moved to R&D to head up UX and UI design for new products.

- With user research team, developed survey to understand how doctors use medical social media. Used results to inform UX design in mockups and prototypes.
- Developed an interactive data visualization of diabetes treatments, generated entirely with patient data. Conducted interviews with pharma analysts, and translated results into prototype.
- Regularly presented my work to CEO and CTO.


Obama for America
Deputy, San Francisco Technology Field Office
February 2012 - November 2012

I volunteered for the 2012 Obama campaign, where I led the concepting, design and development for one of the campaign’s voter-facing apps. The app was released through President Obama’s Twitter account, where it reached 42 million followers.

- Led team of three, and coordinated the work of 10+ volunteers.
- Analyzed government data using geospatial tools and translated them into concepts and mocks.
- Shipped a voter-facing app five weeks before election day.
- Promoted to deputy.


Google
Business Intelligence Developer
March 2004 - May 2010

At Google, I was part of a three-person team that designed the company’s early sales reporting platform. In 2006, I accepted an offer to join the business intelligence team in London, which in 2009 became Google’s global sales analytics team. 

- Designed and built early sales reporting tools used throughout Google’s rapid global expansion.
- Sat in on sales teams to observe how they use data, translated observations into goals, and goals into features.
- Regularly presented to director and VP-level executives.
- Internal transfer to European headquarters in London, UK.


R/GA
Senior Technologist
April 2003 - February 2004

- I was a creative technologist at R/GA, where I designed and programmed apps for Nike, Purina and more.


Projects

Project Atlas
http://kgates-github.github.io/obama.html
A voter-facing app for the Obama 2012 campaign.

Treatment Flow Prototype
http://kgates-github.github.io/treatment.html
An interactive data visualization of diabetes treatments, generated entirely with patient data. 

Seeing the Air
http://www.seeingtheair.com/city/Boston/
A winning entry for a Lift Conference / Swissnex data visualization competition.


Education

San Francisco State University
Economics and Journalism


Design Skills

Prototyping
Wireframing
User research
User flows
Data visualization
Concept development


Programming Skills

JavaScript
CoffeeScript (examples)
Python
SQL
HTML/CSS


Frameworks

d3.js
JQuery
Some Express.js, RAILs, Flask


Applications

Photoshop
Sketch
QGIS






